## Project Outline
## Project description
The project is about developing a mobile calculator application that simply adds, subtracts, multiplies, and divides. The application will have the numbers from 0 – 9 and the basic mathematics operators. The numbers and operators will be clickable so that one can click the number and the operator one needs to perform a calculation. It should also have a clear button to clear all calculations and history of calculations. The mobile application will be developed for Android devices in Android studio. 
## Problem addressing
The problem is determining the platform to use for developing the simple calculator. Once a platform is chosen, a front-end developing language and the backend logic must be chosen. 
## Platform
The development of such a software can be developed in either Windows, Linux or MacOS operating systems. The machine needs a Java Environment. This can be introduced by downloading and installing Java SE and Java Development Kit. The minimum hardware requirements for developing this simple calculator is 4GB RAM memory and a minimum of 40GB hard disk storage. The machine used should also have Android studio installed. The Android studio should have all APIs installed up to the latest API. For example, if the current API is of Android 10, install up to API 25. 
## Front/Back end support
Android studio platform will be used for developing the simple calculator. The layout of the calculator will be developed using XML layouts. The numbers and the operator signs will be designed and placed in the android layout screen using the xml program code. The logic of doing the calculations is developed using Java code. The Java code is written in the Android studio. 
## Functionality
The simple calculations can only perform operations of either addition, multiplication, subtraction or division. Static characters are defined to stand for these operations. The data type of the calculations will be double. This way, calculations can be done on numbers with and without decimals. The code works by adding the number clicked on the layout to the edit text. A calculation method, compute() is used to check whether the number is a valid number and then the operator is selected.  Then a current action action() method is called for the selected operator. The compute() method is then called to do the calculation and an answer is given. 
## Design (wireframes)
The wireframe of the simple calculator can be designed as it will appear on the Android studio layout. The top of the layout will have a TextView showing the name of the calculator. Below it, an EditText field will be designed. This is where the clicked number, operations and answers for calculations will be displayed. After this, Button fields of all the numbers from 0-9 and all operators will be designed and placed on the layout as per the normal standards. A full stop or a dot should also be designed to ensure one can use decimal calculations on the simple calculator. 
## Link
https://github.com/fastlinker/outline#readme
